README.md, before:

# 🤖 Botcasts

**Hotwire-powered Podcast Player** 🔌

This course works by introducing a series of failing tests that you must get to
pass by introducing Hotwire patterns into the application.

For more Hotwire resources, check out our [blog posts].

[blog posts]: https://thoughtbot.com/blog/tags/hotwire

## ⚙️  Setup

If this is your first time running the application, run `./bin/setup` to
install dependencies and seed the database.

If you run into a `Tailwindcss::Commands::ExecutableNotFoundException: Cannot find the
tailwindcss executable` error, you need to add your platform to `Gemfile.lock`. See \
[this Stack Overflow] for more details.

[this Stack Overflow]: https://stackoverflow.com/a/70720842

## 🚀 Getting Started

Once you've setup the application locally, you are ready to start the [lesson plan][1].

Once the tests pass, move on to the next lesson.

## 🏗 Running the application

Run `./bin/dev` to start the development server and then navigate to
[http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000).

## Contributing

Please see [Contributing](./CONTRIBUTING.md).

[1]: ./lessons/README.md

Commit message:

Mount good_jobs UI
When initiating the app for the first time,
and accessing localhost:3000, it can be confusing
to get errors about episodes not being found, or
their images not being found.

This happens because in the setup, background jobs
to download the audio and images are scheduled.
When we run `./bin/dev`, the background jobs
will get executed. This will take some time, so
I thought of adding a note to users.

README.md, after:

# 🤖 Botcasts

**Hotwire-powered Podcast Player** 🔌

This course works by introducing a series of failing tests that you must get to
pass by introducing Hotwire patterns into the application.

For more Hotwire resources, check out our [blog posts].

[blog posts]: https://thoughtbot.com/blog/tags/hotwire

## ⚙️  Setup

If this is your first time running the application, run `./bin/setup` to
install dependencies and seed the database.

### Troubleshooting

If you run into a `Tailwindcss::Commands::ExecutableNotFoundException: Cannot find the
tailwindcss executable` error, you need to add your platform to `Gemfile.lock`. See this
[issue] for more details.

[issue]: https://stackoverflow.com/a/70720842

## 🏗 Running the application

Run `./bin/dev` to start the development server and then navigate to
[http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000).

Note: Running `./bin/dev` will execute the background jobs to import the
episodes scheduled in the setup step above. It will take a few minutes.
If you run into issues due to a podcast or episode not being
found, see the jobs statuses on http://localhost:3000/good_job.
Once they are finished, the episodes should be accessible in the UI.

## 🚀 Getting Started

Once you've setup the application locally, you are ready to start the [lesson plan][1].

Once the tests pass, move on to the next lesson.

## Contributing

Please see [Contributing](./CONTRIBUTING.md).

[1]: ./lessons/README.md
