lessons/lesson-4.md, before:

# Lesson 4: Typeahead Search

In this lesson we'll add typeahead search to the existing search page. As you
start typing your search query, the page will automatically return results
without the need to manually submit the form.

![Demo of typeahead search](./assets/lesson-4/demo.gif)

First we extend the `element` Stimulus controller with a `requestSubmit`
action. This action simply submits the form the controller is attached to.

```diff
--- a/app/javascript/controllers/element_controller.js
+++ b/app/javascript/controllers/element_controller.js
@@ -4,4 +4,8 @@ export default class extends ApplicationController {
   replaceWithChildren() {
     this.element.replaceWith(...this.element.children)
   }
+
+  requestSubmit() {
+    this.element.requestSubmit()
+  }
 }
```

 We'll render the `<form>` element with `[data-controller="element"]` and
`[data-action="debounced:input->element#requestSubmit"]` to route every
[input][] event to the `element#requestSubmit` action, which will submit the
`<form>`.

Since the `<form>` will be making rapid submissions and those submissions will
result in a sequence of Turbo Drive visits, we'll want to render the `<form>`
with [data-turbo-action="replace"][] so that we _replace_ the current History
entry, instead of creating a new entry for each and every keystroke.

```diff
--- a/app/views/search_results/index.html.erb
+++ b/app/views/search_results/index.html.erb
@@ -20,7 +20,12 @@
       <div class="lg:px-8">
         <div class="lg:max-w-4xl">
           <div class="mx-auto px-4 sm:px-6 md:max-w-2xl md:px-4 lg:px-0">
-            <%= form_with model: @search, scope: "", url: false, method: :get, class: "flex items-center gap-4" do |form| %>
+            <%= form_with model: @search, scope: "", url: false, method: :get, class: "flex items-center gap-4",
+                  data: {
+                    turbo_action: "replace",
+                    controller: "element",
+                    action: "debounced:input->element#requestSubmit",
+                  } do |form| %>
               <div class="relative mt-1 rounded-md shadow-sm">
                 <div class="pointer-events-none absolute inset-y-0 left-0 flex items-center pl-3">
                   <%= inline_svg_tag "icons/search.svg", class: "h-2.5 w-2.5" %>
@@ -28,7 +33,8 @@
                 <%= form.label :query, class: "sr-only" %>
```

The `debounced:input` portion of the `[data-action]` attribute refers to an
event that's dispatched by the [debounced][] package, and is named after the
built-in [input][] event. This can be added by running `bin/importmap pin
debounced`.

```diff
--- a/config/importmap.rb
+++ b/config/importmap.rb
@@ -8,3 +8,4 @@ pin_all_from "app/javascript/controllers", under: "controllers"
 pin "trix"
 pin "@rails/actiontext", to: "actiontext.js"
 pin "@github/hotkey", to: "https://ga.jspm.io/npm:@github/hotkey@2.0.1/dist/index.js"
+pin "debounced", to: "https://ga.jspm.io/npm:debounced@0.0.5/src/index.js"
index af807eb..c8be6eb 100644
```

To preserve the query and its focus state throughout the live-search, we'll
render the `<input>` element with the [data-turbo-permanent][] attribute. When
combined with an `[id]` attribute that's consistent across the requesting
document and the response body, Turbo Drive will carry the element instance
forward through the navigation, and backward through a history restoration.

If we did not set the `data-turbo-permanent` attribute, the input would keep
resetting as you type. Adding the attribute preserves its state.

```diff
--- a/app/views/search_results/index.html.erb
+++ b/app/views/search_results/index.html.erb
                 <%= form.text_field :query, class: "w-full rounded-md border-gray-300 pl-10 text-sm placeholder:font-mono placeholder:text-sm placeholder:leading-7 placeholder:text-slate-500",
                                     placeholder: "Search", autofocus: true,
-                                    aria: {describedby: dom_id(@search, :prompt)} %>
+                                    aria: {describedby: dom_id(@search, :prompt)},
+                                    data: {turbo_permanent: true} %>
               </div>
 
               <button class="text-sm font-bold leading-6 text-pink-500 hover:text-pink-700 active:text-pink-900">
```

We'll provide a `debounced` configuration to the page by rendering an in-line
`<script type="module">` element that invokes `debounced.initialize` with a
`JSON` object generated from values read from a call to
[`config_for(:debounced)`][config_for]. In most environments, the `<form>` will
wait 100 milliseconds between `input` events. In `test`, it'll submit
immediately.

```diff
--- a/app/views/layouts/application.html.erb
+++ b/app/views/layouts/application.html.erb
@@ -9,6 +9,11 @@
 
     <%= stylesheet_link_tag "application", "data-turbo-track": "reload" %>
     <%= javascript_importmap_tags %>
+    <%= javascript_tag type: "module", nonce: true do %>
+      import debounced from "debounced"
+
+      debounced.initialize(<%= raw Rails.configuration.debounced.to_json %>)
+    <% end %>
   </head>
 
   <body data-controller="hotkey">
```

```diff
--- a/config/application.rb
+++ b/config/application.rb
@@ -20,5 +20,6 @@ module Botcasts
     # config.eager_load_paths << Rails.root.join("extras")
 
     config.active_job.queue_adapter = :good_job
+    config.debounced = config_for(:debounced)
   end
 end
```

```yml
# config/debounced.yml
shared:
  input:
    wait: 100

test:
  input:
    wait: 0
```

[input]: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/HTMLElement/input_event
[data-turbo-permanent]: https://turbo.hotwired.dev/handbook/building#persisting-elements-across-page-loads
[debounced]: https://github.com/hopsoft/debounced#why
[config_for]: https://edgeapi.rubyonrails.org/classes/Rails/Application.html#method-i-config_for
[data-turbo-action="replace"]: https://turbo.hotwired.dev/handbook/drive#application-visits

Commit message:

Lesson 4: small updates
This commit adds a missing part of using the debounced config file and adds a final message sharing more resources for the next steps.

lessons/lesson-4.md, after:

# Lesson 4: Typeahead Search

In this lesson we'll add typeahead search to the existing search page. As you
start typing your search query, the page will automatically return results
without the need to manually submit the form.

![Demo of typeahead search](./assets/lesson-4/demo.gif)

First we extend the `element` Stimulus controller with a `requestSubmit`
action. This action simply submits the form the controller is attached to.

```diff
--- a/app/javascript/controllers/element_controller.js
+++ b/app/javascript/controllers/element_controller.js
@@ -4,4 +4,8 @@ export default class extends ApplicationController {
   replaceWithChildren() {
     this.element.replaceWith(...this.element.children)
   }
+
+  requestSubmit() {
+    this.element.requestSubmit()
+  }
 }
```

 We'll render the `<form>` element with `[data-controller="element"]` and
`[data-action="debounced:input->element#requestSubmit"]` to route every
[input][] event to the `element#requestSubmit` action, which will submit the
`<form>`.

Since the `<form>` will be making rapid submissions and those submissions will
result in a sequence of Turbo Drive visits, we'll want to render the `<form>`
with [data-turbo-action="replace"][] so that we _replace_ the current History
entry, instead of creating a new entry for each and every keystroke.

```diff
--- a/app/views/search_results/index.html.erb
+++ b/app/views/search_results/index.html.erb
@@ -20,7 +20,12 @@
       <div class="lg:px-8">
         <div class="lg:max-w-4xl">
           <div class="mx-auto px-4 sm:px-6 md:max-w-2xl md:px-4 lg:px-0">
-            <%= form_with model: @search, scope: "", url: false, method: :get, class: "flex items-center gap-4" do |form| %>
+            <%= form_with model: @search, scope: "", url: false, method: :get, class: "flex items-center gap-4",
+                  data: {
+                    turbo_action: "replace",
+                    controller: "element",
+                    action: "debounced:input->element#requestSubmit",
+                  } do |form| %>
               <div class="relative mt-1 rounded-md shadow-sm">
                 <div class="pointer-events-none absolute inset-y-0 left-0 flex items-center pl-3">
                   <%= inline_svg_tag "icons/search.svg", class: "h-2.5 w-2.5" %>
@@ -28,7 +33,8 @@
                 <%= form.label :query, class: "sr-only" %>
```

The `debounced:input` portion of the `[data-action]` attribute refers to an
event that's dispatched by the [debounced][] package, and is named after the
built-in [input][] event. This can be added by running `bin/importmap pin
debounced`.

```diff
--- a/config/importmap.rb
+++ b/config/importmap.rb
@@ -8,3 +8,4 @@ pin_all_from "app/javascript/controllers", under: "controllers"
 pin "trix"
 pin "@rails/actiontext", to: "actiontext.js"
 pin "@github/hotkey", to: "https://ga.jspm.io/npm:@github/hotkey@2.0.1/dist/index.js"
+pin "debounced", to: "https://ga.jspm.io/npm:debounced@0.0.5/src/index.js"
index af807eb..c8be6eb 100644
```

To preserve the query and its focus state throughout the live-search, we'll
render the `<input>` element with the [data-turbo-permanent][] attribute. When
combined with an `[id]` attribute that's consistent across the requesting
document and the response body, Turbo Drive will carry the element instance
forward through the navigation, and backward through a history restoration.

If we did not set the `data-turbo-permanent` attribute, the input would keep
resetting as you type. Adding the attribute preserves its state.

```diff
--- a/app/views/search_results/index.html.erb
+++ b/app/views/search_results/index.html.erb
                 <%= form.text_field :query, class: "w-full rounded-md border-gray-300 pl-10 text-sm placeholder:font-mono placeholder:text-sm placeholder:leading-7 placeholder:text-slate-500",
                                     placeholder: "Search", autofocus: true,
-                                    aria: {describedby: dom_id(@search, :prompt)} %>
+                                    aria: {describedby: dom_id(@search, :prompt)},
+                                    data: {turbo_permanent: true} %>
               </div>
 
               <button class="text-sm font-bold leading-6 text-pink-500 hover:text-pink-700 active:text-pink-900">
```

We'll provide a `debounced` configuration to the page by rendering an in-line
`<script type="module">` element that invokes `debounced.initialize` with a
`JSON` object generated from values read from a call to
[`config_for(:debounced)`][config_for]. In most environments, the `<form>` will
wait 100 milliseconds between `input` events. In `test`, it'll submit
immediately.

```diff
--- a/app/views/layouts/application.html.erb
+++ b/app/views/layouts/application.html.erb
@@ -9,6 +9,11 @@
 
     <%= stylesheet_link_tag "application", "data-turbo-track": "reload" %>
     <%= javascript_importmap_tags %>
+    <%= javascript_tag type: "module", nonce: true do %>
+      import debounced from "debounced"
+
+      debounced.initialize(this, <%= raw Rails.configuration.debounced.to_json %>)
+    <% end %>
   </head>
 
   <body data-controller="hotkey">
```

```diff
--- a/config/application.rb
+++ b/config/application.rb
@@ -20,5 +20,6 @@ module Botcasts
     # config.eager_load_paths << Rails.root.join("extras")
 
     config.active_job.queue_adapter = :good_job
+    config.debounced = config_for(:debounced)
   end
 end
```

```yml
# config/debounced.yml
shared:
  input:
    wait: 100

test:
  input:
    wait: 0
```

### Check in

To complete this lesson:

- run `./bin/rails test` to verify the tests pass
- press ⌘ k anywhere in the page and type a query, for example, "ruby". Verify the search results are returned without having to submit the form

And this marks the end of building a Hotwire-powered Podcast Player Hotwire 🎓

To continue mastering your Hotwire skills,
check out our [Hotwire resources] and [blog posts].

[input]: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/HTMLElement/input_event
[data-turbo-permanent]: https://turbo.hotwired.dev/handbook/building#persisting-elements-across-page-loads
[debounced]: https://github.com/hopsoft/debounced#why
[config_for]: https://edgeapi.rubyonrails.org/classes/Rails/Application.html#method-i-config_for
[data-turbo-action="replace"]: https://turbo.hotwired.dev/handbook/drive#application-visits
[Hotwire resources]: https://thoughtbot.com/services/hotwire-stimulus-turbo-frontend-development
[blog posts]: https://thoughtbot.com/blog/tags/hotwire
